[Music]
hey guys I'm a bit mix flatlander my
name's Mary RLC and I ride for team
extreme and I'm gonna be showing you
some beer mix tips and hints they're
gonna look at how to do a wheelie on a
BMX bicycle now wheelie is probably one
of the first tricks and one of those
popular tricks that everyone's heard of
and knows and it's not necessarily
necessary just on a BMX you can do it on
any bicycle but today I'm going to show
you how to do one on a BMX there are
several types of wheelies that can be
done they've got different names you've
got a peg wheelie which is what it is
you do really on the peg the back pegs
then you're using your leg as balance
you'll have your regular really which
you see kids doing everyday that up in
the air and they're pedaling along the
mountain bikes like this you've got
what's called a manual which is more of
a street move for BMX is where it's
actually a rolling we do which doesn't
involve pedaling which involves putting
the bike up on the pedals we put your
body weight behind the seat you'll
actually roll with the wheel slightly
off the floor but it goes for ages when
you've got the balance point correct but
the way that we show today is it's just
a basic sitting down wheelie it's one of
the most comfortable to do you can just
pick the bike up you sit on the seat and
away you go but to get to that stage you
need to know a few things so we're going
to talk through that and see if we can
get your doing wheelies right the first
step to actually doing a wheelie is
you're going to want your bike in this
position you're going to be sitting down
and you're going to be peddling so you
need to find your sweet spot on the
bicycle basically now to learn a wheelie
from scratch the first thing to do is
just to ride wrong at quite a slow pace
and you've got a preload your body again
you've got to kind of crouch down a
little bit and you're going to be
putting your weight your front foot is
going to be footage pushing down on that
pedal then you're gonna put at the same
time as pushing down on that pedal you
want to lift up on the bars and lean
back slightly don't overly know if you
would just pull straight off the back so
basically you want to be riding along
you're just going to do that movement
hit the pedal don't lift up on the bars
now that's your first step to doing a
wheelie your second step is to find your
sweet spot now to do that you're going
to need to start pedaling
so you're gonna lift the bike up and
you're going to try and give it one
crank at a time if you can we no one's
expecting you to do 20 pedals down that
direction just lift the bike up try one
crank get under control and let it drop
back down to the floor then eventually
you just build up and you build up on
your cranks and then you will you'll
find your balance point and you'll just
keep going so for example you'd lift up
also a very important thing is to use
your brake if you feel that when you've
lifted the bike up your body weight is
going to go far to over back and you're
going to fall off just slightly hit your
back brake what that will do is that
will stop the bike and it will stop it
from going back any further it will
actually want to push you down so then
you want to do the opposite if you feel
you're going down too far you need to
lean back more on the seat when you're
doing the wheelie try and sit on the
back of your seat I'm not too far back
but literally on this section because
that will give you the balance point and
not easier then if you're right crouch
forward and sitting on the front of the
seat
[Music]
and that's how you do wheelie